Ministry of Shipping
New 50 bed "COVID-19 Hospital" started by Mumbai Port Trust Mumbai Port Trust is carrying out all port operations with minimum operational employees
Posted On: 04 APR 2020 7:55PM by PIB Mumbai
Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) Hospital has started a new 50 bed arrangement for treatment of COVID-19 patients. This newly started facility, called COVID-19 Hospital, has been kept separate from the Non-COVID-19 hospital. Two separate isolation wards have also been started- one for COVID-19 (suspect) isolation ward with it's own ICU and another for COVID-19 (positive) isolation ward with its separate ICU. As part of arrangements to deal with COVID-19, screening is done at the new gate and each hospital has it's own entrance, it's own reception, it's own casualty, ICU, wards etc. Also, PPE suits have been made compulsory in COVID-19 hospitals of MbPT and Special SOPs defined for separation of patients.
MbPT has also started quarantine wards at three locations namely, Dhanvantari Building in MbPT Hospital, Nadkarni Park Welfare Centre, Wadala, and CMC Building inside Indira Docks for keeping the suspected persons. MbPT has also tied up with Sailors’ Home, Wadi Bunder (500 beds) for use as quarantine facility. They have also established tie up between Municipal Corporation and a Cruise Vessel having accommodation for 2000 persons on board to serve as floating quarantine facility. Further, vacant flats in the residential quarters in the vicinity of Port Trust Hospital readied for accommodating the isolation cases/staff on emergency duty.
Certain steps taken by MbPT to ramp up the fight against COVId-19 include-
Control Room and Co-coordinating Officers
MbPT is carrying out all port operations following DG shipping's SOPs in respect of COVID-19, with minimum operational employees. They have adopted digital means for functioning as much as possible, with e-payment systems only being functional, meetings conducted through Zoom and digital systems and file work and instruction being given through WhatsApp Groups. Security guards have been replaced in the outlying areas by quick response mobile teams.
This apart, MbPT has also adopted certain preventive measures to keep away COVID-19. It includes-
RT/SC/DR
