PIB Headquarters
PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
Posted On: 03 MAY 2020 6:24PM by PIB Delhi
(Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)
Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
So far, a total of 10,632 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 682 patients were found cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 26.59%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 39,980. Since yesterday, an increase of 2644 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.Dr Harsh Vardhanhas urged the people of India to observe the extended period of lockdown 3.0 (till May 17, 2020) in letter and spirit and treat it as an effective intervention to cut down the chain of transmission of COVID-19. He urged the countrymen not to ostracize the doctors treating COVID-19 patients and to not stigmatize the patients who have won the battle against COVID-19.
Prime Minister held a meeting to discuss strategies to discuss interventions in the financial sector as well structural reforms to spur growth and welfare in the current context. At a meeting with Finance Minister and officials, PM discussed strategies and interventions to support MSMEs and farmers, enhance liquidity and strengthen credit flows. PM also discussed ways and means to ensure financial stability in the wake of COVID-19 and measures taken to enable businesses to recover quickly from the impacts. Dwelling on the issue of welfare of workers and the common man, PM pointed out the need to generate gainful employment opportunities by helping businesses overcome difficulties due to disruptions caused by COVID-19.
It is clarified that few Special trains which are being run for migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places, are being operated on request of state governments only. All other passenger train services remain suspended.Railways isonly accepting passengers brought and facilitated by State Governments.
ShriGadkarihas called upon the industry that it is needed to be ensured by industries that necessary preventive measures are taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He emphasized on usage of PPE (Masks, sanitizer etc.) and advised to maintain social distancing norms during business operations.The Union Minister mentioned that there is need to focus on export enhancement as well as import substitution to replace foreign imports with domestic production.
430 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers. 252 of these flights have been operated by Air India and Alliance Air. Cargo transported till date is around 795.86 tons. Aerial distance covered by Lifeline Udan flights till date is over 4,21,790 km.Helicopter services including Pawan Hans Ltd have been operating in J&K, Ladakh, Islands and North East region transporting critical medical cargo and patients. Pawan Hans till 2 May 2020 have carried 2.27 tons of cargo covering a distance of 7,729 kms.
INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES
********
YB
